I have an 11-month-old and one of her
favorite books is The Very Cranky Bear.
But guess what? If I read this book to
her by saying, "He nashed his teeth and
stomped his feet and chased them out the
door." She would look at me and think,
"Dad,
where's the emotion? Where's the
animation in your voice? And why doesn't
Bear have a voice? and zebra have a
voice and lion and moose, she would
expect more from me. And to anyone who's
ever read a children's book to your
child or a niece or a nephew or a
younger sibling, you know that part of
the experience is to use some emotion in
your voice and to tell a great story
because it helps immerse the child in
that story. But for some reason, we
forget this when it comes to giving a
presentation to adults. And maybe we're
nervous about what other people will
think, but we should not neglect vocal
variety. Vocal variety is one of the
most important aspects of giving a
speech. And there can be done many ways
in terms of increasing or decreasing
volume or adjusting the pacing. But in
many ways, vocal variety is actually
more important than the actual words
you're saying. One of the easiest ways
to accomplish vocal variety is to get
loud at certain parts in your
presentation. And I'm going to talk
about that in a moment. But first off, I
want to say that the average volume you
have, that base volume throughout the
speech should be loud enough for the
entire room to easily hear what you're
saying, whether you're miked or not.
I've often heard from AV people who have
been working at events that I've been to
speak at talk about trying to speak to
the back of the room, even if you're
miked up. Essentially, you don't want
people to have to strain and really be
listening carefully to understand what
it is you're saying. It should be a
seamless, easy experience for them to
get your full message. And from there,
if something exciting happens, like a
bang in a story, that's when you can
increase the volume. What this is going
to do is it's going to capture and
recapture your audience's attention. It
almost spikes a little bit of adrenaline
into them and they think, oh, they get
immersed in the story, but also it
recaptures that attention and helps them
focus. It essentially keeps them on
their toes. So, increasing volume is a
really powerful way of using vocal
variety. A lesser known way to
incorporate vocal variety because many
people know to increase the volume, but
it's to dial it back. It's to get softer
with your voice when it makes sense to
do so. So, as I mentioned before, it's
important that your bass volume when
you're giving a presentation, the
average volume is loud enough so the
whole room can easily hear you. But if
you're talking about something emotional
or sad,
it makes a lot of sense to decrease your
volume in those moments.
that is going to draw the audience in.
That is going to recapture their
attention because you're disrupting that
average volume. You're decreasing it for
a moment
and it immerses the audience. They feel
what you experienced, what you felt,
because you're matching it with your
voice. So, while many people know to get
louder in a speech, fewer people know to
dial it back. When it comes to vocal
variety, often people think about the
volume getting louder or getting softer.
But what fewer speakers think about is
the pacing. But pacing is really cool
because it can help take the audience
and bring them into your story. As an
example, let's pretend you're trying to
catch a flight and you're in the middle
of downtown Toronto and you're trying to
find a cab and you're looking around and
finally you spot one across the street,
but you have to dart in and out of
traffic to get there and then you open
the cab door and you throw in your
backpack and you get in the back seat
and you tell the driver to go quick
because you're running late for your
flight and the driver is weaving in and
out of traffic going as fast as he can
and then he pulls up to the departure
gate and you get out with your backpack
and you sprint through the airport, but
it's too late. You missed your flight.
You're not going to get home on time.
And this is devast. I don't know where
I'm going with this story, but you can
see that the pacing, speeding up when
something is really exciting or there's
a chance that you're going to catch the
plane and the audience is taken with you
on this journey [sighs]
and then slowing down to allow them to
feel the disappointment
to have empathy for your situation.
That is incredibly important, incredibly
powerful as a tool that you can utilize
as a speaker. And like I say, more
speakers think about volume loud or
softer than they do about pacing fast
and slow. So if you can incorporate
effective pacing in your speech, you're
going to be an elite speaker. A final
way you can incorporate vocal variety is
using strategic pauses.
I recently was asked to review a speech
from one of my friends and her speech
was phenomenal. She's going to do an
incredible job when she actually goes to
deliver it. My only feedback to her was
to incorporate more pausing, especially
at the beginning. You see, she had this
crazy embarrassing situation happen. But
in the recording that she sent me, she
rushed through this story. And what took
her 15 seconds to tell, in my mind, this
could have been one minute if done
effectively.
Every sentence was powerful. And what I
suggested to her was to slow down the
pacing and introduce more pauses. Pauses
have two very powerful effects. First
off, if you are saying something that is
a big idea or something that is hard to
comprehend,
pausing allows the audience to realize,
oh wow, like the full power of what was
just said. It will help it sink in. If
you were giving a speech about social
media, here's one way you could
introduce pauses. You could say 80% of
videos on social media are viewed
without the sound on.
80% of videos on social media are viewed
without the sound on. These pauses and
the repeats allow an audience to wrap
their head around this surprising or
interesting fact. Or if your company did
really well, you could say our company
earned $50 million last year.
This surpassed investors predictions by
more than 10x.
It's these pauses that allow the message
to sink in. The other place you want to
consider pausing is when you inject
humor. So, if you say something funny,
don't rush to keep talking. Pause. Make
some eye contact with the audience. And
if the laughter starts, don't cut it
off. Allow the laughter to occur. And
sometimes that will build up to be more
laughter.
Pausing can really allow impactful
statements to hit and humor to get the
maximum amount of laughter from
audiences. I hope this video on vocal
variety has been beneficial to you. As I
mentioned, vocal variety is one of the
most important things to consider when
it comes to public speaking. And there
is a speech within the Toastmasters
curriculum that is all about vocal
variety and body language. And I have a
video that will help you prep for this
particular speech. To anyone who's
watching this who is part of the
Toastmasters program, that video will be
popping up on the side. As always,
please consider subscribing to my
channel because it is the best way to
support what I do. Thanks for watching
this